Climbing flight

Do the same analyses for propeller aircraft. As for the flight envelope, replace gamma with climb rate. We generally consider climb rate for propeller aircraft 
instead of gamma because it is directly related to the maximum power constraint. In case of jet, the thrust constraint is directly related to gamma. 


Turning flight: Consider a steady general turning flight with zero sideslip.

1. For gamma = 3 degress and mu = 15 degrees, calculate thrust requied at different speeds. Plot thrust required against speed. Find the minimum thrust required 
and corresponding throttle. Assume h = 5 km

2. Calculate the minimum and maximum airspeeds for the above both graphically and numerically.

3. The aircraft can maintain a steady turn with a bank angle of 15 degrees at many different flight path angles. Find the maximum flight path angle.

4. For level turn at h = 5 km, calculate the maximum sustained turn rate, minimum radius of turn and flight conditions for maximum load factor turn. Pay 
attention to their order of magnitude.

5. Plot bank angle vs. speed at h = 5 km for gamma = 3 degrees and maximum throttle. Justify why the curve looks so. In the same curve, plot the stall limit,
and load factor limit (assume nmax = 2). 

6. In the figure of 5, plot contours for different constant values of radii of turn and from that find the minimum radius of turn. Compare it with the minimum 
radius of turn for level turn.

7. Find the flight ceiling for gamma = 3 degrees and mu = 15 degrees.

8. Plot alitude vs. speed envelope for the above gamma and mu.

9. Repeat 1-3 and 5-8 for gamma = -2 degrees.

9. Plot 3D flight envelope for gamma = 3 degrees

10. Plot 3D flight envelope for mu = 15 degrees.

11. Repeat the above for the propeller aircraft. Here, thrust should replaced with power. Instead of gamma, consider a climb rate of 3 m/s and mu is 10 degrees.

12. As for 3. note the following change: A propeller aircraft can maintain a steady turn with a bank angle of 10 degrees at many different climb rates. 
Due to the flight constraints that must be satisfied, especially the limit on the maximum power that the propeller and internal combustion engine can provide,
there is a maximum climb rate. Find the maximum climb rate at mu = 10 degrees.

13. For 3D envelopes consider climb rate in place of gamma.

